[LOGO WHOOSHING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
>> We're here today to announce
the first synthetic cell.
As soon as we had
these two sequences,
we thought if this is
supposed to be the smallest
genome of a
self-replicating species,
could there be even
a smaller genome?
Could we understand the
basis of cellular life
at the genetic level?
>> On May 21, 2010, this
historic announcement was made
by Craig Venter on the
first fully-functioning,
reproducing cell controlled
by synthetic DNA.
Every protein of this cell
was based on a synthetic code
they had developed.
As exciting as this
was for bringing
in a new era of science,
the question was posed, then
what is life if we can just
create it through a code?
There are some experts
that have suggested
that an ancient blueprint
was left behind.
In 1929, an American
archaeologist
named Matthew Williams
Stirling began
suspecting that artifacts
emerging out of Mexico
belong to a time much earlier
than the suspected Olmecs.
He concluded that these
artifacts were actually Mayan.
In 1941, Stirling unearthed
a large carved stone monument
in the Mesoamerican site
Izapa of Chiapas, Mexico.
He named this Stela 5.
>> And Stela 5 is a description.
It's a sketch of exactly
the type of world tree
that keeps showing
up in different forms
all over the world in
every indigenous culture
you look for.
One of the things that's a
very common element that we
see in the Mayan
version are birds
that are nesting in a tree.
Then there's also the belief
that in the upper part
of the tree, it represents
the tangible manifest world.
And then the area
of the tree that
goes below the
surface of the Earth
represents the underworld.
The Mayan tree of life depicts
the oneness of humanity,
that we all come
from the same root,
and that we've all branched
out to become one of many.
>> The Mayan tree of life may
not look like a coded depiction
for the human genome.
However, researchers
started mapping its imagery.
They counted 12 human
figures, a dozen animals,
over 25 botanical or
inanimate objects,
and 9 stylized deity masks
carved into the stone.
Given the multiple
overlapping scenes,
it appears to be a narrative.
But what is the narrative?
And could Stirling's
suggestion that these images
belonged to a much older
culture be just the beginning
of its origin?
>> Well, let's go back
to the garden of Eden.
In the garden of Eden,
there are actually
two trees of significance.
One of them is the tree of
knowledge of good and evil,
which Adam and Eve eat from,
thus entering into a state
where they may begin to make
responsible choices for which
they will have to
bear the costs.
And the other is
the tree of life.
When the demiurge
drives Adam and Eve out
of the garden of Eden,
he states his motive.
And the motive is kind of eerie.
He says, this has to be done.
They have to be driven
out of the garden of Eden.
They've eaten of the tree of
knowledge of good and evil.
The next thing they will do
is eat of the tree of life.
And then they will
become gods like us.
That statement is
actually in Genesis.
What on Earth is going on there?
What does that mean?
Is there some deeply buried
secret of transcendence
that demiurgic and
archonic forces have
concealed from us from so long?
Is there a tree of life?
Is there something
beyond what we
think of as the
span of human life,
some eternity that
is offered to us?
>> One meaning that people give
to it is that it was the tree
that leads to
physical immortality.
If you look at the old
Mesopotamian writings,
one of the big conflicts
between humans and the gods
was the gods did not want
humanity to have immortality.
Most people interpret that
to be physical immortality,
that we live and die too soon.
It goes too quickly.
And meanwhile,
the gods were said
to have lived 20,000 years,
or 50,000 years, or longer.
So why not humans?
And the idea was that
humans were perhaps
programmed that way to die
more quickly so they couldn't
be like the gods.
And so the tree of life,
by that interpretation,
would be that this is
the formula or this
is the knowledge for how you
attain that much longer time
span physically.
>> One of the greatest mysteries
of the Sumerian civilization
and the artifacts that have been
found from that civilization is
the ancient Sumerian kings list.
They identify the time
of the Great Flood
that is almost universal in
every indigenous tradition I've
ever studied.
And the length of time of the
rulers from that time into more
present times is right on.
It is very accurate.
And where this gets
really interesting,
the names of the rulers, the
time that they ruled on Earth,
the lengths of their reigns
are all within reason.
Prior to that
time, we're looking
at kings who are
said to have ruled
for periods of time of thousands
and thousands of years.
So for example, the
very first king listed
is said to have ruled
for 28,000 years.
>> Could these Sumerian gods or
rulers have been able to live
for 28,000 years at some point?
Or is this just another
meaning for something else
carved into the stone?
>> Another interpretation of the
tree of life is that it meant
the awareness of
spiritual immortality,
that humans would go
through this lifetime.
They go through
this between lives.
And there's a memory loss.
And then they get reincarnated.
And they've forgotten
all of the past.
And so now they feel like, oh,
life is just 70, 80, 90 years,
not realizing, no, it's this
whole continuum that goes back
thousands, hundreds
of thousands,
maybe millions of years.
>> [SPEAKING FRENCH]
>> In Sumerian Eden texts,
just like in the Bible,
we find two trees, the tree
of life and the tree of good
and evil.
The tree of life
refers to eternal life.
As far as the truly inaccessible
tree of life is concerned,
it relates to ways for people
to achieve transcendence.
This way, people can
truly liberate themselves.
>> The Mayan Tree of Life stone
and the garden of Eden tree
of life aren't the only
references that represent this
same concept.
In fact, throughout
many cultures,
it is found depicted
in almost the same way.
>> The Mayan tree of life
is a very good example
of the concept of
the cosmic tree,
the tree from which life
and creation emerges from.
It would seem to
exist, essentially,
in the center of the world.
Out from it went the four
different directions,
each of which had four different
colors associated with them.
And in each of those
directions, there
were different clans and tribes.
This shouldn't be
seen in isolation
because all the way
around the world,
we have similar ideas of these
world trees or cosmic trees.
>> The tree of life is a symbol
that's found in many cultures
and civilizations down through
history all over the world.
The ancient Norse
civilization in Europe
had the sacred tree Yggdrasil.
And they believe it connected
the world of the gods
with the world of humans and
then down to the underworld.
The ancient Indian spiritual
texts, the Bhagavad Gita,
speaks of a tree of life
with its roots going up
and its branches going down.
The essential
thing to understand
is that the real self
is the conscious self.
And the physical body, be it
a human body or a plant body
or an animal body, is a vehicle
for that conscious self, which
originally existed
as a divine spark
on the higher level of reality.
This is one of the
main Gnostic teachings.
So that means as long as there
has been a material world,
human beings and
other conscious selves
have been part of
the tree of life
here for millions or
even billions of years.
>> If there is a universal tree
of life depiction in almost all
these different cultures, then
how do we decipher the code
in its branches?
>> "Hamlet's Mill," it describes
a continuity that seems almost
impossible to believe between
mythologies all over the world.
In fact, they combined 35
different geographically
isolated, in most cases,
mythological traditions
and showed that there
was an underlying
commonality between them all.
Now, one of the common
themes that you hear about
in "Hamlet's Mill" is the idea
of a mill for grinding grain,
where there is a central axis.
And then you have this millstone
with a rod going through it.
There is a hole in the
middle of the millstone.
And you grind it
around in circles.
And it grinds up the
grain into flour.
Now, the strange thing is
that the mythology shows up
in different ways
around the world.
And most of the common ways that
Santillana and von Dechend talk
about is the world tree.
So instead of it
being an actual axle
of a mill for grinding
grain, now you
have a central trunk of a tree.
And the tree is
actually something
that fits into the same
mythological concept
as Santillana and von
Dechend are talking about.
So what is the
mythological concept?
The myths always
seem to describe
some sort of spontaneous
metamorphosis of the human
being.
>> But how does a human
form spontaneously?
Is it possible that
the tree represents
an even deeper understanding of
how we were created as humans?
>> According to my research,
the tree of life depicts
the frequency that
DNA oscillates at.
Everything is made out of
a frequency or vibration.
The wall behind me
is all vibration.
You could stick
your hand through it
if you were able to
match that vibration.
All genetics have a
vibratory signature that
can be picked up by technology.
And the secret
space programs are
able to use this
type of frequency
to detect different
types of life
just by their genetic frequency.
>> If DNA has its own frequency,
then how can it be manipulated
and changed?
>> We are gods.
We forget this connection.
And the more you
understand that,
the more you actually become
aware of your position in life.
I think that's where
the interaction is
between the tree of knowledge
and the tree of life.
One leads to the other.
Now, if you follow that
through in terms of genetics,
the more you come to understand
who you are as a temple
and as a god.
You begin to alter the chemical
structure of your own DNA.
It actually starts
to alter who you are.
And this is something that we
now know in modern physics.
So in a way, you can see
there's a tree of life
because it means
that you actually
are altering your very own DNA.
Your own thoughts, and
your own belief patterns
do alter your DNA.
It only takes a small change
in the local electromagnetic
environment to alter the
information received by DNA.
>> Were the gods afraid that
we could be able to manipulate
our own DNA?
And if so, could
the tree symbology
be a blueprint for this
inevitable knowledge?
>> The world tree symbology also
has a very interesting parallel
in actual physics.
Only recently have
we really started
to understand the value
of the significance
of the spherical torus.
If you have a vector moving
through a fluid medium,
meaning if you just have a
force moving through a fluid,
as the force moves,
it will naturally
cause a torus to form.
The torus is a
curling of the fluid
as a vector moves through it.
We see in physical
systems, like the atom,
that the atom is a series of
toroidal shells of electrons
that are all concentric
with a nucleus.
In much the same
way, the world tree
appears to have layers
of onion-like shells.
>> If the tree of life is
a representation of DNA
on a deeper level, where can
this be decoded in ancient
texts?
>> The closest thing, I believe,
on the planet right now that
you might be able to come
across is the original Hebrew
language, which, when
you begin to examine it,
has 22 letters matching all
of these other ancient occult
secrets.
And those 22 letters each
equate to a number value.
And because of that,
you can construct
words that have
a numerical value
or a mathematical relationship
with their surroundings.
I think that's the last
surviving piece that shows us
what that language was like.
And no, it's not
perfect by any means.
But the fact that
you can literally
construct mathematical
equations out of words,
and the words makes
sense, and that
these mathematical equations
interact harmonically
with our surroundings is
the great occult secret.
That's the occult secret
that every occult group
has been searching for forever.
And the reason why the tree
of life, for example, where
you have 22 paths
and each equate
to one of the Hebrew
letters, is the basis
of most of their
Oracle teachings.
And what we know
about DNA today that--
they're still discovering
new things every single day.
But we know that the female
and the male human body
share 22 chromosomes.
The 23rd are the sex chromosomes
that make us different.
The 22 is what's
interesting because DNA
is created in a spiral.
And spirals naturally
transmit fractal energy.
What's even more
interesting is that when
you begin to examine a lot
of the ancient cultures who
were building these megalithic
monuments, for instance,
the pyramids at Egypt,
there are 22 pyramids along
the causeway of peace, not the
three that they always show.
There are 22.
And when you begin to study
the occult, especially
the Western occult
tradition that came up
through the Knights Templar
and into the Freemasons
and to Crowley's
group and the OTO,
you begin to learn that
the 22 trumps of the Tarot
also match the 22 paths
on the tree of life, which
also match the 22 pyramids.
And they all have the same
vibrational frequency.
That's fascinating.
>> Interestingly enough,
the Mayan "Tree of Life"
carved into Stela 5 and its
depictions throughout Mayan
culture also has a strange
correlation to the number 22.
>> When I was in the Yucatan
working with the Mayan elders,
there was an elder
that came out.
And we were having
the conversation.
And he said it's
easier if I show you.
It begins with many
branches of the tree above.
And it represents the 13
heavens that we aspire to.
Below the root system represents
what they call the nine
levels of the underworld.
Nine hells is what the Western
tradition would call them.
And the area in
between is Earth.
>> Could the tree of life
really be a secret code
for our physical
existence on the planet?
Could it explain our material
existence in this density?
>> If you look at the idea that
the planets are not just being
held in some strange combination
of centrifugal and centripetal
force, but there is some sort of
greater emanation from the sun
that's holding them in place
because their orbits should not
be so consistent over
many thousands of years.
And that is what mainstream
scientists have said.
They've had a big problem
trying to figure out,
why do planets not lose their
energy and crash into the sun?
I've often modeled this idea
that the planets themselves
are on spherical layers, that
there's a spherical forcefield
holding each planet in place.
And that's what determines
its orbit, which means,
if you look at our solar
system from the perspective
of the afterlife, you would see
a series of concentric spheres
with a central axis.
And it would look like a tree.
And what I find
really interesting
is that PMH Atwater,
in one of her books,
describes her own
near-death experience
where when she got thrown out of
her body into the solar system,
she saw a phenomenon
of what looked
like a series of
umbrellas of energy.
And the central stalk of the
umbrella was where the sun is.
Well, that's the world tree.
The ancient beings seem to
have left behind mythologies
like the world tree on
purpose because they
got us closer to the
understanding of how physics
really work.
The ubiquity of
the spherical torus
in any type of energetic
system you're looking at--
biological, cellular life,
molecules, the energy fields
of planets, the energy
fields of the solar system,
even the energy
fields of galaxies--
appear to have these spherical
toroidal shapes in them.
So it's a trail of
breadcrumbs leading us
down a very interesting
line of investigation.
And when you start
to understand this,
you can no longer look
at the inscriptions
and see them as primitive.
You say, there's something going
on here that's very powerful.
>> If the ancient gods were
afraid that humans would eat
from the tree of life,
and they were successful,
could someone or something
have picked up on this trail
of breadcrumbs and have created
their own version of our DNA?
Reporter Linda Moulton Howe
discovered some shocking links
to, specifically, the Mayan tree
of life and a DNA manipulation.
>> It was back in
the early 1980s.
I was in New York.
It was another one
of those phone calls.
Can I talk to you about--
and this person, a
man, said that he
had worked for the Central
Intelligence Agency, retired.
And he traveled with
another CIA colleague.
And their destination
was New Delhi in India.
And they were given detailed
instructions upon landing
at the airport, maps.
And he said it was really
necessary that they
went into this detail.
He said, in that
work, going to India,
and knowing that we are dealing
with actual preserved material
related to ET
technology in a body.
He said, we also were told that
the last major manipulation
of DNA in already evolving
primates on this planet--
exactly as I had seen in
that presidential briefing
paper at Kirtland.
It was in Bhutan in the
Himalayas 5,000 years different
ages.
He said, I think the
last was 2,500 years ago.
And that was the creation
of hybrids between Bhutanese
and something else, and
that we know-- and he said,
we have proof--
that the hybrids in Bhutan
were picked up by craft, UFOs,
and flown to what we would
today call the Yucatan Peninsula
on the Gulf of Mexico.
Then that was the Mayan
civilization created
in a hybridized program by EBE--
Extraterrestrial
Biological Entities.
And they were put down
in the Yucatan Peninsula
to keep them away from every
other hybridization program
that they had on the Earth,
which included putting hybrids
in the tops of mountains,
putting hybrids
on islands, peninsulas, to keep
their experiments on the Earth
separate.
The tree of life, at least this
is my just basic understanding,
that the tree of life
in any culture's history
has related to, we'll call it,
elites who may have actually
been handed information
down from something
that we are a created species.
But in religions, the
creation of humans
is allocated to a godhead.
>> I view DNA as an
analog coding molecule.
And when we sequence
the DNA, we're
converting that analog
code into digital code.
The 1's and 0's in
the computer are
very similar to
the dots and dashes
that Schrodinger indicated
might be the original code.
And I've called this
process digitizing biology.
>> If Craig Venter and
his institute are correct,
does this mean our code is part
of a larger database or system?
Is the tree of life
the representation
of the database we live in or
an invitation to free ourselves
from the code?
>> The tree of life has
also been, sometimes,
interpreted to maybe mean
certain drugs that give you
insight.
For example, we know
that certain drugs
were used to gain psychedelic
experiences to try to gain
insight into other realms.
Ayahuasca is a very commonly
talked about drug today,
and that the tree of
life may have actually
been the source of one
of these drugs that,
then, gives this insight during
life into these other realms.
>> Interestingly, in ancient
Egypt, the tree of life,
which is found in many
scenes-- for example,
there's a fabulous scene on
one of the walls of the temple
of Karnak at Luxor
in Upper Egypt,
which shows the god
Thoth, the god of wisdom,
the inventor of writing.
He's the Egyptian counterpart
of Enki, as a matter of fact.
The god Thoth is
beside the tree.
And he's writing a
name on a little object
that's hanging from the tree.
And after the other side,
you see the pharaoh Seti I,
who reigned about 1,400 BC.
And what Thoth is doing
is he's writing the name
of Seti I on the tree of life.
What he's saying is you have
been justified in the judgment.
Now, you have earned the
life of millions of years.
This becomes all
the more interesting
when we look botanically at the
ancient Egyptian tree of life.
It happens that a very good
friend of mine Dennis McKenna,
who is the brother of the late
great Terence McKenna, Dennis
is an ethnopharmacologist.
He knows his trees.
He's very experienced and
knowledgeable in this area.
And he's worked on this subject.
And he's identified the
ancient Egyptian tree of life
as Acacia nilotica,
which, it so happens,
is a tree the bark
of which contains
large quantities of the most
powerful hallucinogen known
to humanity
dimethyltryptamine, DMT,
which, interestingly, is a
natural brain hormone as well.
We all produce DMT in the body.
A lot of research has
gone on into this.
What's it doing there?
It's present normally in
subpsychedelic quantities.
But why is it generated
in the human body at all?
And where is it generated?
And there's more
and more of a focus
on the pineal gland,
the third eye,
as a place where DMT manifests.
It's fascinating that out
of the realm of plants,
with the molecule DMT involved,
the very molecule that
is associated with the
ancient Egyptian tree of life,
we have these
teachings of how we
are to function in this
universe of duality
and how we can be nurturing
and positive presences
in that universe rather
than negative ones,
how, in fact, we can detach
ourselves from the demiurge
and approach the realm of
spirit much more directly.
>> Could the tree of life hold
a fruit of which we could see
beyond our created world?
Could these ancient
representations
give us the tools
we need to break
our third-dimensional prison?
Some experts, like Jack Cary,
believe the ancient humans
tapped into a tool that
defied the ancient gods.
>> Imagine a species that has
developed a language that is
so potent that it literally uses
the laws of harmonic resonance
in order to create instantaneous
change in your surroundings.
>> Up next, the revolt of early
man and the Tower of Babel.